# Article

The LQ45 Stock Price Index is an index that measures the price performance of 45 stocks that have high liquidity and large market capitalization listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange. The LQ45 Stock Price Index prediction can be used to measure the performance of a stock portfolio in the future so that investors can evaluate the shares they own. Predicting the LQ45 Stock Price Index is a difficult task because this stock price index data tends to have quite high fluctuations. For this reason, an appropriate technique is needed to predict the LQ45 Stock Price Index. The LQ45 Stock Price Index is a type of time series data. Several models have been developed to predict time series data, one of which is machine learning. Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) is a special approach to machine learning through generative modeling. The GAN method can produce predictions that have high accuracy, because GAN uses two networks, namely generator and discriminator. Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) is used as generator to study data and make predictions and Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) is used as discriminator to classify data. Therefore, in this thesis, the author applies the GAN method in predicting the LQ45 Stock Price Index. The application of this method aims to increase accuracy in predictions so that investors can measure the performance of their stock portfolio in the future properly. The data used in this thesis is the daily closing price of the LQ45 Stock Price Index from the period 2 January 2019 to 30 December 2022. The prediction results of the LQ45 Stock Price Index can be shown by the MAPE value. For training data, the MAPE value is 20,9340% and for testing data, the MAPE value is 2,3740%. These results use a comparison of 80% training data and 20% testing data.
